[docs][dagster-airbyte] Add guide for Airbyte Cloud integration (#12816)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/airbyte-cloud.mdx

```bash
pip install dagster dagster-airbyte
```

You'll also need to have an Airbyte Cloud account, and have created an Airbyte API Key. For more information, see the [Airbyte API docs](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/start).

---

## Step 1: Connecting to Airbyte Cloud

The first step in using Airbyte Cloud with Dagster is to tell Dagster how to connect to your Airbyte Cloud account using an Airbyte Cloud [resource](/concepts/resources). This resource handles your Airbyte Cloud credentials and any optional configuration.

```python startafter=start_define_cloud_instance endbefore=end_define_cloud_instance file=/integrations/airbyte/airbyte.py dedent=4
from dagster import EnvVar
from dagster_airbyte import AirbyteCloudResource

airbyte_instance = AirbyteCloudResource(
    api_key=EnvVar("AIRBYTE_API_KEY"),
)
```

Here, the API key is provided using an <PyObject object="EnvVar" />. For more information on setting environment variables in a production setting, see [Using environment variables and secrets](/guides/dagster/using-environment-variables-and-secrets).

---

## Step 2: Launching Airbyte Cloud syncs using Dagster

> In order to create software-defined assets for your Airbyte Cloud connections, you will first need to determine the connection IDs for each of the connections you would like to build assets for. The connection ID can be seen in the URL of the connection page when viewing the Airbyte Cloud UI.

Author: Updated to explain where in the URL the connection ID lives

<center>
  <Image
    alt="Screenshot of the Airbyte UI in a browser, showing the connection ID in the URL."
    src="/images/integrations/airbyte/airbyte_connection_ui.png"
    width={3102}
    height={1746}
  />
</center>

Then, supply the connection ID and the list of tables which the connection creates in the destination to `build_airbyte_assets`:

```python startafter=start_manually_define_airbyte_assets endbefore=end_manually_define_airbyte_assets file=/integrations/airbyte/airbyte.py dedent=4
from dagster_airbyte import build_airbyte_assets

airbyte_assets = build_airbyte_assets(
    connection_id="87b7fe85-a22c-420e-8d74-b30e7ede77df",
    destination_tables=["releases", "tags", "teams"],
)
```

> #### Adding a resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding a resource
```

The heading above this one is an H2, so this should be an H3

We can add the Airbyte resource we configured above to our Airbyte assets by doing the following:

```python startafter=start_airbyte_manual_config endbefore=end_airbyte_manual_config file=/integrations/airbyte/airbyte.py dedent=4
from dagster_airbyte import build_airbyte_assets

from dagster import with_resources

airbyte_assets = with_resources(
    build_airbyte_assets(
        connection_id="87b7fe85-a22c-420e-8d74-b30e7ede77df",
        destination_tables=["releases", "tags", "teams"],
    ),
    # Use the airbyte_instance resource we defined in Step 1
    {"airbyte": airbyte_instance},
)
```

---

## Step 3: Adding downstream assets

<Note>
  Looking to orchestrate Airbyte with dbt? Check out our{" "}
  <a href="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/tree/master/examples/assets_modern_data_stack">
    Modern Data Stack example
  </a>{" "}
  and our <a href="/integrations/dbt">dbt integration docs</a>.
</Note>

Once you have loaded your Airbyte Cloud assets into Dagster, you can create assets which depend on them. These can be other assets pulled in from external sources such as [dbt](/integrations/dbt) or assets defined in Python code.

> In this case, we have an Airbyte connection which is storing data in the `stargazers` table in our Snowflake warehouse. We specify the output [IO manager](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) to tell downstream assets how to retreive the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we have an Airbyte connection that stores data in our Snowflake warehouse's `stargazers` table. We specify the output [I/O manager](/concepts/io-management/io-managers) to tell downstream assets how to retrieve the data.
```

Fixing a typo and suggesting a rewrite for clarity/using active voice

```python startafter=start_add_downstream_assets endbefore=end_add_downstream_assets file=/integrations/airbyte/airbyte.py dedent=4
import json
from dagster import asset, Definitions
from dagster_airbyte import load_assets_from_airbyte_instance

> airbyte_assets = load_assets_from_airbyte_instance(

Reviewer 2: should this be the build command for airbyte cloud instead of load?

Author: yes, fixed!

    airbyte_instance,
    io_manager_key="snowflake_io_manager",
)

@asset
def stargazers_file(stargazers):
    with open("stargazers.json", "w", encoding="utf8") as f:
        f.write(json.dumps(stargazers, indent=2))

defs = Definitions(
    assets=[airbyte_assets, stargazers_file],
    resources={"snowflake_io_manager": snowflake_io_manager},
)
```

---

## Step 4: Scheduling Airbyte Cloud syncs

Once you have Airbyte Cloud assets, you can define a job that runs some or all of these assets on a schedule, triggering the underlying Airbyte sync.

```python startafter=start_schedule_assets endbefore=end_schedule_assets file=/integrations/airbyte/airbyte.py dedent=4
from dagster import (
    ScheduleDefinition,
    define_asset_job,
    AssetSelection,
    Definitions,
)

# materialize all assets
run_everything_job = define_asset_job("run_everything", selection="*")

# only run my_airbyte_connection and downstream assets
my_etl_job = define_asset_job(

>     "my_etl_job", AssetSelection.groups("my_airbyte_connection").downstream()

Reviewer 2: it is unclear in the guide so far where the group "my_airbyte_connection" comes from and might be worth highlighting how you properly select airbyte assets

---
title: "Using Dagster with Airbyte Cloud"
description: Integrate your Airbyte Cloud connections into Dagster.
---

# Using Airbyte Cloud with Dagster

<Note>
  Using self-hosted Airbyte? Check out the{" "}
  <a href="/integrations/airbyte">
    guide on using self-hosted Airbyte with Dagster.
  </a>
</Note>

Dagster can orchestrate your Airbyte Cloud connections, making it easy to chain an Airbyte sync with upstream or downstream steps in your workflow.

> This guide focuses on how to work with Airbyte connections using Dagster's [software-defined asset (SDA)](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide focuses on how to work with Airbyte Cloud connections using Dagster's [software-defined asset (SDA)](/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets) framework.
```

Should this be `Airbyte Cloud`? There are some places in this guide that use just `Airbyte` vs `Airbyte Cloud` - we should be consistent unless there's a technical reason to just use `Airbyte`

airbyte_instance = AirbyteCloudResource(
    api_key=EnvVar("AIRBYTE_API_KEY"),
)
```

Here, the API key is provided using an <PyObject object="EnvVar" />. For more information on setting environment variables in a production setting, see [Using environment variables and secrets](/guides/dagster/using-environment-variables-and-secrets).

---

## Step 2: Building Airbyte Cloud assets using Dagster

In order to create software-defined assets for your Airbyte Cloud connections, you will first need to determine the connection IDs for each of the connections you would like to build assets for. The connection ID can be seen in the URL of the connection page when viewing the Airbyte Cloud UI, located between `/connections/` and `/status`.

For example, the connection ID for the URL `https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces/11f3741b-0b54-45f8-9886-937f96f2ba88/connections/43908042-8399-4a58-82f1-71a45099fff7/status` is `43908042-8399-4a58-82f1-71a45099fff7`.

<center>
  <Image
    alt="Screenshot of the Airbyte UI in a browser, showing the connection ID in the URL."
    src="/images/integrations/airbyte/airbyte_cloud_connection_ui.png"
    width={1509}
    height={1026}
  />
</center>

> Then, supply the connection ID and the list of tables which the connection creates in the destination to `build_airbyte_assets`. This utility will generate a set of software-defined-assets corresponding to the tables which Airbyte creates in the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, supply the connection ID and the list of tables which the connection creates in the destination to `build_airbyte_assets`. This utility will generate a set of software-defined assets corresponding to the tables which Airbyte creates in the destination.
```
